README.md, before:

# species_survey

## Disclaimer - This was built initially for my personal use specifically for recording moths. Anyone using this is likely to find some rough edges and gotchas. Please let me know and I'll endevour to fix - better yet send me a pull request.

## Which branch?
I recommend taking the latest from the __deploy__ branch.

## Installation
Very little effort has been spent on making the install process smooth.
Having said that I do believe there are only a few steps needed:

1. clone the repo to your local machine
2. Install/config a mysql or mariadb server - I use mariadb, so that is recommended. (See notes below about installation). If you would rather use a sqlite3 filebased (and get the app to set this up for you, let me know)
3. create a file sql_config_local.py to override the values in sql_config.py
4. Ensure you have installed the dependancies 
```pip install markdown numpy bottle pandas mysql.connector waitress```
5. Install libcblas.lib used by pandas - `sudo apt-get install libatlas-base-dev`
5. Populate the tables by running `python ./bottle/create_tables.py` 
6. run moth_bottle.py (I run this from a crontab at boot)
7. point a browser at `http://<your machine>:8082`

Good luck and let me know how it goes.
  
  
  
## Installing and configuring mariadb
There is a good tutorial here: https://raspberrytips.com/install-mariadb-raspberry-pi/
  
Follow this tutorial to set up root access from the local machine

The specific instructions needed to define the user details in sql_config_default.py are:

  1. Login as root: `sudo mysql -uroot -p`
  2. Create database: `CREATE DATABASE moths_database;`
  3. Create user: `CREATE USER `'moths'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'moths12345';`
  4. Grant privileges: `GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON moths_database.* TO 'moths'@'localhost';`
  5. Finally: `FLUSH PRIVILEGES;`
  
If you want to change the database name, username or password - just make sure you create a sql_config_local.py that overrides the default values to set them to the values you use here.

Commit message:

Updated README.md to reflect improvements in installation and creating mysql/mariadb tables.

README.md, after:

# species_survey

## Disclaimer - This was built initially for my personal use specifically for recording moths. Anyone using this is likely to find some rough edges and gotchas. Please let me know and I'll endevour to fix - better yet send me a pull request.

## Which branch?
I recommend taking the latest from the __deploy__ branch.

## Installation
Very little effort has been spent on making the install process smooth.
Having said that I do believe there are only a few steps needed:

1. clone the repo to your local machine
2. Install/config a mysql or mariadb server - I use mariadb, so that is recommended. (See notes below about installation). If you would rather use a sqlite3 filebased (and get the app to set this up for you, let me know)
3. create a file sql_config_local.py to override the values in sql_config.py
4. Ensure you have installed the dependancies 
```pip install markdown numpy bottle pandas mysql.connector waitress```
5. Install libcblas.lib used by pandas - `sudo apt-get install libatlas-base-dev`
5. Populate the tables by running `python ./bottle/create_tables.py`. This will ask for the `root` password, which is not stored.
6. run moth_bottle.py (I run this from a crontab at boot)
7. point a browser at `http://<your machine>:8082`

Good luck and let me know how it goes.
  
  
  
## Installing and configuring mariadb
There is a good tutorial here: https://raspberrytips.com/install-mariadb-raspberry-pi/
  
Follow this tutorial to set up root access from the local machine
